Device: abstraction for a entity that has storage and compute capability
A default device must exist.
Every device must provide a to_host method that moves value from device to host and a from_host method that moves a value from host to device.

Value: an entity that is device independent
Value is opaque and can only be accessed with to_plain method
This enables lazy evaluation as Value can actually be a built up higher other function that produces an entity.

Node: node is an entity that can have zero or more runtime inputs and produces 1 or 2 runtime output (that may feed in to many nodes.)
First output is a special output (Output 0) that represents signal
Node are like math functions except that zero input is allowed and has a special output in addition to zero or more output.

Node can have static attributes.
Node does not need to bind inputs or outputs at construction time. Static atrributes need to be given at construction.
Every node must provide an eval method, given ordered host input value(s), produces host output value.
Devices can provide an eval method for nodes.
Every node must provide an memory_estimate() and compute_estimate() method
Every node must provide an infer output shape method
Every node must provide an forward method

"Nodes are device independent"
"Values live on device"
"Graph describes computation(flow) in an abstract way."


Output (def-use chain): captures a single output value from a node and connects it to input(s) of one or more nodes.

Input (use-def chain): captures a single input value that is produced from a node.

Op: Op is a collection of connected nodes (or pattern of nodes)
Op has inputs and output(s)
Op must provide an ordered mapping of its inputs and outputs to internal node's inputs and outputs.
Op is a graph builder pattern
Device may provide a specialized eval method for an Op. If not, a fallback that calls eval methods of internal nodes is provided.


Op(Pattern) Matching:

Graph execution:
- Define as go (eager)
- Frozen graph
- Asynchronous
- Lazy
- Multi device
- Hetro device
